##### export 21 #####




                                                 game setup    DAILY LIFE AT ACTON




                                                                     LABELED WATER BOTTLE
                                                                     LUNCH & SNACK
                      WHAT TO BRING                                  BACKPACK
                                                                     CHANGE OF CLOTHES, HAT, GLOVES,
                                                                     EXTRA BOOTS ETC    (optional)




                                                                   9:00- 11:30 A.M. WORK BLOCK
                                                                   We   begin  with   morning    circle,   a   tea  ceremony,

                          GAME BEGINS                              reviewing of promises, or introduction of new skills,
                                                                   Nature    exploration,   nature       curriculum    lesson,
                                                                   imaginative play, collaborative play, snack, read aloud,
                                                                   senses & weather exploration, clean up, gratitude, &
                                                                   pack up.


                                                                   9:00- 11:30
                                                                   Hang out outside together during the warmer months of
                        PARENT’S ROLE                              the year. Practice cultivating your own “there’s no bad
                                                                   weather”   mindset.  Connect   with  other   parents,  do
                                                                   something that fuels you. Be available by your phone if
                                                                   your child needs bathroom assistance or extra emotional
                                                                   support. During colder seasons head into the family room.



                                                                    11:30-2:00 P.M LUNCH & OUTDOOR PLAY
                                                                    Eat lunch with your child outside, enjoy being with other
                         OUTSIDE PLAY                               friends, or leave when the work block is over. Please
                                                                    clean up trash, and keep an eye on your child as our
                                                                    guide is “off duty” at 11:30. When the bell rings at 1:50pm
                                                                    please clean up and be packed by 2pm when VL closes.
                       If you need to discuss something with Ms. Erin, she will be available for her guide support time: Wednesday 11:30-
                       12:00pm. Remember (if it is possible, and appropriate) to have your learner present in these conversations to start
                       the mindset early on, that they own their challenges and their solutions.

                       Encourage your tot to keep toys at home so they can stay safe and not become a distraction to other learners or
                       take away from the new invitations that await them when they are with their tribe.

                       Please park with awareness of our parking arrangement in the parking lot to allow for everyone to have a spot.

                       P & T is meant to be an introduction level program so it won’t have everything the older programs have. Many of
                       the items in the Playbook won’t relate to these young learners yet. P & T Parent Meetings will be held during
                       program time, Jenna will let you know ahead of time. P & T families are invited to the family activities, please note
                       that they are typically planned for older audiences, and you are welcome to make any needed adjustments. P & T
                       are invited to Thursday program wide field trips. Just let Jenna know and plan on meeting us there. We hope you
                       enjoy the unique connection and community that the P & T tribe offers!

                       2025                                                    20             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 22 #####




                                              game setup  DAILY LIFE AT ACTON




                                                               LABELED WATER BOTTLE
                                                               LUNCH & SNACK
                      WHAT TO BRING                            BACKPACK
                                                               CHANGE OF CLOTHES, HAT, GLOVES,
                                                               EXTRA BOOTS ETC  (optional)


                                                             8:30-8:45A.M. OUTDOOR PLAY

                            DROP-OFF                         All weather outside play.




                                                             8:45-9:00 A.M. BRAIN GYM
                                                             We meet at the grassy field for brain gym exercises,
                              WARM UP                        involving cross-lateral movements that are designed to
                                                             integrate the brain's hemispheres and enhance learning
                                                             abilities, making them beneficial for cognitive functions
                                                             like memory, focus, and coordination, In addition to brain
                                                             gym we have announcements and a wellness exercise.

                                                             9:00 A.M. WORK BLOCK
                                                             We begin with morning circle, song, town hall, set
                         GAME BEGINS                         goals. Throughout the day there is a rotation through
                                                             different  activities, reading    group,  math    works,
                                                             Emotional   Intelligence  activities,  read-a-loud,  art
                                                             projects, snack, reading time, outside tribe play and
                                                             more,


                                                             12:30-2:00 P.M LUNCH & OUTDOOR PLAY
                                                             Lunch in the studio, then they gather their items before
                              PICK-UP                        the studio closes, and head outside for the optional
                                                             extended play. It is all weather. Learners will gather for
                                                             pick up starting at 1:50 at the roundabout. Thank you for
                                                             being on time for pick up, and please be in touch if a
                                                             problem arises.




                       If your learner needs to discuss something with Ms. Megan, she will be available for her guide support
                       time: Wednesday 12:30-1pm during lunch time, and during most of the other days at lunch as well (:.

                       If there is a noteworthy injury or bathroom accident, Ms Megan will assist the child and let you know
                       via BAND message at the end of the day.




                       2025                                              21            FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 23 #####




                                               game setup  DAILY LIFE AT ACTON




                                                                LABELED WATER BOTTLE
                                                                LUNCH AND SNACK
                      WHAT TO BRING                             CHANGE OF CLOTHES OR EXTRA
                                                                WINTER CLOTHES       (optional)



                                                              8:30-8:45 A.M. OUTDOOR PLAY
                            DROP-OFF                          All weather outside




                                                              8:45-9:00 A.M. BRAIN GYM
                                                              We meet at the grassy field for brain gym exercises,
                              WARM UP                         involving cross-lateral movements that are designed to
                                                              integrate the brain's hemispheres and enhance learning
                                                              abilities, making them beneficial for cognitive functions
                                                              like memory, focus, and coordination, In addition to brain
                                                              gym we have announcements and a wellness exercise.


                                                               9:00 A.M. WORK BLOCK
                         GAME BEGINS                           Morning
                                                               workshop,
                                                                           circle,
                                                                              tribe
                                                                                    Socratic
                                                                                     building,
                                                                                               Launch,
                                                                                                  snack
                                                                                                         quest,
                                                                                                          time,
                                                                                                                  writers
                                                                                                                   quest,
                                                               communication challenges, improv challenges, closing
                                                               circle, reflection, character call outs, goal setting and
                                                               accountability and more occur during their work block




                                                              12:30-2:00 P.M OUTDOOR PLAY
                              PICK-UP                         All weather outside. Learners     are able to eat outside
                                                              together and then enjoy extended outside play time.
                                                              Studios are closed except for bathroom or first aid. Lots
                                                              of  time   for weather    &   nature  exploration, friend
                                                              connection, conflict resolution etc.


                      If your learner needs to discuss something with Ms. Rose, she will be available for her guide support
                      time: Monday 12:30-1pm

                      If you are picking up your child at any time during the work block, it is helpful to talk about it on the
                      drive to VL so your child can be mentally prepared to stop working and pack up early. When you arrive,
                      you can park and poke your head into the studio to get their attention. They will sign out before they
                      leave.


                       2025                                              22             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 24 #####




                                              game setup  DAILY LIFE AT ACTON




                                                                LABELED WATER BOTTLE
                                                                LUNCH
                      WHAT TO BRING                             CHANGE OF CLOTHES OR WINTER
                                                                ITEMS (optional)


                                                             8:30-8:45 A.M. OUTDOOR PLAY
                            DROP-OFF                         All weather outside




                                                             8:45-9:00 A.M. BRAIN GYM

                              WARM UP                        We meet at the grassy field for brain gym exercises,
                                                             involving cross-lateral movements that are designed to
                                                             integrate the brain's hemispheres and enhance learning
                                                             abilities, making them beneficial for cognitive functions
                                                             like memory, focus, and coordination, In addition to brain
                                                             gym we have announcements and a wellness exercise.


                                                             9:00-1:15 P.M. WORK BLOCK
                        GAME BEGINS                         Morning    circle,  Socratic   Launch,   quest,  writers
                                                            workshop,    tribe   building,   quest,  communication
                                                            challenges, improv challenges, Apprenticeship, Core and
                                                            Badge work time, closing circle, reflection, lunch,
                                                            character call outs, goal setting and accountability and
                                                            more occur during their work block




                                                              1: 15-2:00 P.M OUTDOOR PLAY
                              PICK-UP                        All weather outside. Learners are able to enjoy extended
                                                             outside  play    time. Studios   are  closed   except    for
                                                             bathroom or first aid. Lots of time for weather & nature
                                                             exploration, friend connection, conflict resolution etc.


                      If your learner needs to discuss something with Mr. Robert, he will be available for his guide support
                      time: Wednesday 1:15-2pm

                      If you are picking up your child at any time during the work block, it is helpful to talk about it on the
                      drive to VL so your child can be mentally prepared to stop working and pack up early. When you arrive,
                      you can park and poke your head into the studio to get their attention. They will sign out before they
                      leave.



                       2025                                              23            FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 25 #####




                                             game setup
                                                     PARKING INSTRUCTIONS




                           Address: 14031 Silver Ridge Road Caldwell
                           Drop off starts: 8:30 am
                           Pick up: by 2pm or earlier when the work block finishes

                           Please drive slowly through the neighborhood– this is an absolute necessity
                           (think 15mph).

                           Please pass the home, and pull through the roundabout on the second
                           entrance, and pull up to the highest spot. Keeping your vehicle on.

                           Drop off begins at 8:30am (not any earlier).
                           If you are needing more time situating your learner, pull through and park
                           on the rocks or driveway or dirt parking lot.

                           If a parent is parking in the dirt lot, please walk with your child to enter
                           VL grounds across the front of the house by the roundabout- that helps us
                           see everyone coming in.

                           When parking on the dirt lot, there is a metal grate covering the irrigation
                           water to be mindful of. Please do not park or drive on it.

                           Pick Up during Outside play time:

                           If you are picking up after the work block (12:30 for spark/discovery and
                           1:15 for Adventure), you’ll need to park and find your child in the front play
                           area or The Grove. Don’t forget to check the restroom!

                           Make sure to notify (a wave or acknowledgement is fine) the outside
                           supervisor (possibly Rose/Marah/Megan.- typically wearing the orange cape)
                           or Jenna before leaving.


                           Parking: when parking on the dirt lot please follow the arrangement laid
                           out in the picture below. This maximizes our parking spots. If the lot is
                           full, you are welcome to park on the rocky area by the sport court, 2 cars
                           deep and 2 cars across. Lastly, you are welcome to park in our driveway if
                           needed. Please follow this parking routine for any VL related event.




                               Feel free to print this reference sheet and give to any
                              caretakers who may be picking up your child this year.
                                    If you need to text/call Jenna: 208-204-8819



                       2025                                          24             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 26 #####



                                                                                                                            Share




                                            game setupGENERAL INFORMATION



                         Emergencies: For program-wide emergencies, communication will first be sent
                         via the BAND app, followed by personal phone calls if needed.

                         For individual emergencies, we will make every effort to contact the parent or
                         listed emergency contacts promptly.

                         If evacuation from our location is necessary, learners will be transported the
                         empty lot next to Faith Journey Church at:
                         23057 Old Hwy 30, Caldwell, ID 83607. It was an old baseball field, it's close to
                         the freeway.

                         Assume that our programs will continue during power outages and snowy
                         weather. Families are encouraged to use their own judgment about attendance
                         based on their comfort and safety.

                         We are on septic and personal well water. When power is out, we lose toilet
                         functions and running water. We have a camping toilet prepared. We also have
                         extra water stored on site.

                         Lost & Found: If there’s an item lost while in studio it’ll go in the studio lost &
                         found. If it’s lost outside it’ll go in a bin on the shelves near Discovery studio.
                         So there will be 2 potential places to look for items.

                         Fred the Shed is located on the west side of the main home. It is near the sport
                         court. Once inside, the right side is Jones family personal items. the left side is
                         VL items. There are abundance bins where you can donate your gently used
                         items and also shop for free! There are bins labeled for adult and children
                         clothing, and one household items bin. If you have a larger item you would love
                         to donate, share a picture on the “Resources” BAND thread and offer it to
                         families. There is also a bin for any donated toilet paper rolls, cool re-usable
                         craft items that your happy to donate or that our guides may request.

                         Late Drop off Box: if you need to get something to your learner after they are
                         in their studio work block, there is a labeled box in Fred that you can put the
                         item in, the learner can then retrieve it when it works for them. This minimizes
                         studio interruptions (:

                         Clothes for a rainy day bin: We do have a few winter items that we can offer to
                         learners if they are really cold during the winter, or something unexpected
                         happens to their clothing. No guarantee that it will fit perfectly or be the color
                         they desire (: but it’s an option if they are want it. We would appreciate any
                         donated winter clothes to add to this bin.

                         Yoga mats: if you are hanging out and would like to do some exercising
                         outside, feel free to grab a yoga mat from the labeled bin in Fred. Please return
                         it before 2pm. These are only for parents or for learners when they use them as
                         a tribe.




                        2025                                         25             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




                   28 / 64



##### export 27 #####




                                            game setup
                                               LEARNING DESIGN INFORMATION


                         We have 7 sessions with a break after each session. During these sessions the
                         different studios have varying quest collaborative projects they work on. For the
                         2025-2026 year, here are the projected Quest topics. They are subject to change.
                         Every year there will be new quests with the exception of a few repeating (like
                         entrepreneurship and growing curiosity).

                         Adventure:
                         Session 1: Build the tribe
                         Session 2: E-Ship (entrepreneurship)/Psychology
                         Session 3: Civilization                                          Session one is all about creating studio
                         Session 4: Design, Logic, & Science                         contract, relationships, tribe health and more.
                         Session 5: Nature Science                                    Once they are ready, technology starts to be
                         Session 6: Science                                             incorporated into the studio life, after that
                                                                                         Journey Tracker and then the online core
                         Session 7: Growing Curiosity & Art
                                                                                    programs. We strive to introduce systems at an
                         Build the Tribe
                                                                                       intentional pace to reduce overwhelm, and
                         E-ship (entrepreneurship)
                                                                                      increase confidence and overall excitement.

                         Discovery
                         Session 1: Build the tribe
                         Session 2: Entrepreneurship
                         Session 3: Process Drama
                         Session 4: Chess
                         Session 5: Physics
                         Session 6: Survivor
                         Session 7: Growing Curiosity

                         Spark: more will be shared later on in the year
                         Session 1: Build the tribe

                         Online LA/Math Troubleshooting: If you have         technical difficulties with your
                         learners account while at home. It is most effective for you to directly reach out to
                         Khan Academy or Lexia.
                         Khan: they do not have a phone support. You will submit an online ticket.
                         Tip for tickets: take note and share any error messages, this speeds up resolution
                         Lexia: support@lexialearning.com & phone: 1-800-507-2772 Mon–Fri: 8:00 a.m.–6:00
                         p.m. ET

                         Thresholds for Thriving: In Acton studios across the world, learners advance by
                         readiness, not by birthdays. When clear thresholds (habits of self-governance,
                         completed goals, and demonstrated mastery) are met—and the learner has
                         genuinely grown—new privileges and the next studio open up. This models the real
                         world: accomplishments unlock opportunity.

                         If your child is age-eligible, guides will share the specific thresholds they’ll work
                         toward and, by May, your learner will prepare a “Pitch to the Next Studio” showing
                         evidence of growth (badges, and reflections). If thresholds aren’t yet met, no
                         problem—the path continues until readiness occurs! We will educate parents more
                         on this process during our last Parent Meeting.




                       2025                                          26             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 28 #####




                    daily life
                               HOW WE START THE DAY AT VIBRANT LIFE
                                          | grounding. energizing. connecting. |
                          Each morning at Vibrant Life, we take a few intentional minutes from 8:45-9:00 am for our
                        morning exercises. These are to help learners settle into their bodies, empower their minds, and
                                                  connect with themselves and each other.
                        The Morning Exercise Leader begins by saying “ Good morning!” the learners reply: “Yes it is!”


                     BRAIN GYM
                     We start with gentle, coordinated movements that activate both sides of the brain and
                     prepare the body for learning. These exercises improve concentration, balance, and
                     cognitive performance.

                                  Research supports it: Movement that crosses the body’s midline helps
                                  strengthen neural pathways and improves attention in young learners.

                     HEART COHERENCE
                     Learners are guided to breathe slowly while focusing on something they love or feel
                     grateful for. This brings their nervous system into balance and fosters a grounded, calm
                     state.

                                 HeartMath Institute research shows that heart-focused breathing
                           increases emotional resilience, reduces stress, and enhances decision-making.

                     WHEEL OF AWARENESS
                     Learners stand, breathe, and place attention in the “hub,” then gently move a “spoke” to
                     notice the body, the five senses, inner feelings and thoughts, and finally connection with
                     others—ending with a kind wish. This builds ownership of our awareness, calm focus,
                     and a felt sense of belonging.

                                   Developed by Dr. Dan Siegel, this practice improved attention, emotion
                                 regulation, and social connectedness, with reductions in stress reactivity.

                     CHARACTER CALL-OUTS
                     We regularly build in character call-outs to name and celebrate character — the
                     courage, kindness, grit, and honesty we witness in each other. This creates a culture of
                     recognition and deepens connection in our learning community.

                       When learners are seen for who they’re becoming, motivation grows from within.

                       2025                                            27             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 29 #####




                    daily life                                 CONTINUED


                                           Additional Tools We Use
                                      | grounding. energizing. connecting. |
                       4–7–8 BREATH (RELAXING BREATH)

                       Learners inhale quietly through the nose for 4, hold for 7, then exhale with a soft “whoosh” for 8,
                       repeating four gentle cycles. The extended exhale cues the parasympathetic system, creating quick
                       calm for transitions, big feelings, or winding down.

                       Popularized by Dr. Andrew Weil, research on paced breathing with longer exhales links brief daily
                       practice to improved heart-rate variability, emotion regulation, and reduced stress reactivity—
                       supporting steady focus and self-control. Learners do this practice one time a week during their
                       Wednesday Morning Exercises and also are invited to use it throughout the day if or when needed. To
                       build up, they have begun with a 3-4-6 breath for the first couple of months.

                       EMOTIONAL FREEDOM TECHNIQUE (TAPPING)
                       Tapping on specific acupressure points while naming what we’re feeling helps learners process
                       emotions and shift into a more peaceful state.

                       Studies show EFT is effective in reducing anxiety, improving focus, and
                       building emotional regulation skills, especially in young children.

                       AROMATHERAPY (LAVENDER + ROSEMARY)
                       Learners smell lavender (for calm) or rosemary (for memory/alertness) and take three slow breaths while
                       noticing body and mood. Odor signals travel from the nose    →  to the olfactory bulb →  enter the primary
                       olfactory cortex and limbic areas (amygdala/hippocampus) without a first stop in the thalamus, which
                       means scent influences emotion and memory quicker than other sensory input. Other sensory input has
                       to stop at the thalamus, the relay station, before moving to the next stop of the brain for processing.

                       Research: Lavender inhalation shows reductions in anxiety/stress, while rosemary aroma is linked to
                       better memory/working memory, with the rosemary correlating with an increased cognitive
                       performance in studies.

                       Living Library: We believe literature can feed the heart and soul. Following Charlotte Mason’s lens, we
                       curate “living books”—well-told works that carry rich ideas—while minimizing “twaddle” texts that talk
                       down or are thin of thought. Both entertainment and nourishment have a place, but our shelves lean
                       toward the books that shape character, vocabulary, and imagination. Our libraries draw on Charlotte
                       Mason, Well-Educated Heart, and other trusted sources. Modern research shows that U.S. schoolbooks
                       and literature started getting simpler around the mid-1900s, with clear declines from the 1930s through
                       the 1990s. This happened because publishers aimed for readability scores, and responded to
                       testing/policy pressures that favored shorter, easier excerpts over rich, whole texts.

                       Toddler Developmental Support: For P & T studio, we use tools and ideas from Emma Hubbard, the
                       emotional regulation tools listed above, as well as others.



                         When learners learn to influence their nervous system, their capacity grows and
                                         life becomes a series of choices, not reactions.

                       2025                                               28             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 30 #####




                    daily life                            CONTINUED




                                                  CHARACTER CALL- OUTS
                                                   ....and how to do them...
                      Character Traits We Celebrate
                      (Just a few of the many…)
                         Courage
                         Grit                               “I wou
                                                                      ld like
                         Kindness                                               to give
                                                          Betsy               out to a character
                         Integrity                                 you                Bet              call-
                                                           this m lost in the sy.
                                                                     o  rn              g ame w
                         Honesty                             trying ing 2 times,                  e play
                                                                                                        ed
                                                                       . I call
                         Responsibility                                         that g and you kep
                                                                                       rit. 2 c
                                                                                Betsy!”        laps fo t
                         Compassion                                                                   r
                         Generosity
                         Creativity
                         Initiative
                         Patience
                         Curiosity                                                    call-
                                                                            ara cter
                         Helpfulness                                 a ch noticed
                                                             give
                                                       e to             my I          ared
                         Respect              ould li k
                                                           m  y. Jim p and sh lse
                                         “I w       o Jim          od u            ne e
                         Forgiveness          out t y you sto hen no o urage. 2
                                                  rda             w             t co
                         Flexibility        yeste new idea I call tha
                                                  r
                                              you to share       .              y!”
                                                    d            f or   Jimm
                         Humility           want
                                                 e
                                                         claps
                         Leadership
                         Perseverance
                         Full Body Presence


                       2025                                          29             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 31 #####



                                                                                                                                  Share




                      daily life                                 CONTINUED




                       environment
                             We work hard to maintain an intentional, curated, and loving environment. We want the learners
                             to feel a sense of comfort, community, and joy. Our learners deserve a beautiful haven where the
                             environment calms nerves, stimulates minds, and inspires natural creativity.

                             We ask that all learners, refrain from bringing toys or books from home as much as possible
                             unless for show-and-tell (which the learners self-organize), or specifically stated by the guide.

                             Socks, Slippers, and Bare Feet: We invite all learners and staff to move around in their studios
                             with their shoes off. This creates a more honoring, and comfortable at home feeling. In many
                             cultures, people remove shoes before entering as a sign of cleanliness and respect for the space.
                             Anyone is welcome to leave slippers or socks in their cubby. Or if they want to keep their shoes
                             on- that’s ok too!

                             Outside we invite bare feet as often as the learner would like. We do suggest shoes on when
                             learners head into The Grove. Going bare foot outside has some obvious risk and also some very
                             positive health effects. Going barefoot strengthens the small muscles of the feet and ankles,
                             restoring natural arch support and healthy toe splay. The rich sensory feedback from skin to brain
                             sharpens balance, coordination, and posture, and can help support the nervous system. Learners
                             may choose what’s best for their bodies and the activity.




                       flow
                             At VL, we have many liberties. We allow young people to work at their own pace and drive
                             themselves. This freedom is defined as freedom to work ahead and to work towards independent
                             goals/passions during specified times — not freedom from working or freedom to do anything
                             they want, whenever they want. This implies that they are always working towards a larger goal
                             as part of their Hero’s Journey and that they honor the studio’s forward movement as well, which
                             is facilitated by the studio schedule.




                        2025                                                30             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




                   33 / 64



##### export 32 #####




                    daily life
                                                                                   Sugar: While at VL we try to go a bit
                                                                                   lighter on sugary treats. This does not
                                                                                   mean "never" and we are not trying to kill
                                                           CONTINUED               the fun ;) but we do try to be more
                                                                                   creative about other fun things and limit
                                                                                   the frequency/quantity of sugar in the
                                                                                   studio to promote an overall healthier

                    lunches & snacks                                               lifestyle.




                       At Vibrant Life, we believe food plays an important role in overall health—and that healthy
                       eating habits are a life skill. We encourage families to send nourishing foods while respecting
                       different dietary philosophies. When doable, please limit high-sugar items (sports/energy
                       drinks, soda, candy, and dessert-style snacks).

                       Water: Please send a labeled water bottle each day (a spare can stay in the cubby). If a learner
                       forgets they may borrow a studio cup and are responsible for washing it that day. The studio is
                       closed for refills during outside play, so you can remind your learner to fill up before heading
                       out.


                        “The food you eat can be either the safest and most powerful form of medicine or the slowest
                                                       form of poison.” -Ann Wigmore

                                     “Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food.” -Hippocrates




                     celebrations
                          We love celebrations and traditions at Vibrant Life, and birthdays are no different! Each
                          studio has its own birthday traditions, and all include a “Circle of Appreciation.” The
                          birthday child sits in the center while peers offer one sincere, character-based
                          compliment; the child closes by sharing one thing they appreciate about themselves.
                          Each learner also receives a peacock feather as a reminder of their unique beauty.




                                                                        Birthday Treats: Learners are invited (when
                                                                        possible) to bake a snack or bring a health-
                                                                        conscious treat to share at lunch. Parents are
                                                                        welcome to join—please coordinate with your
                                                                        guide via a BAND message.




                       2025                                            31            FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 33 #####




                    daily life                                          CONTINUED




                          outdoor play

                          Exploration and testing personal limits is an important part of our program
                          and child development, and we will allow learners, in most cases, to take risks
                          and push their limits, which will be different for each learner.




                                                                                                   “I took a walk in the woods
                                                                                                  and came out taller than the
                                                                                                              trees.”
                                                                                                     -- Henry David Thoreau




                                                                                                     At times learners will be
                                                                                                  allowed to be out of sight, but
                                                                                                  within calling distance, from a
                                                                                                  guide or outside supervisor. This
                                                                                                  privilege, and the privilege of
                                                                                                  extended     outdoor     play    in
                                                                                                  general, is something that may
                                                                                                  be revoked for learners who do
                                                                                                  not follow the contract. All
                              “ E n c o u ra g e yo u r c h i l d t o hav e m u d d y ,           studio contracts are still in place
                                 g ra ss y o r sa n d y f e e t b y t h e e n d o f
                                 each day, that's the childhood they                              during outdoor time.
                                     d es e r v e. ” – P e n n y W h i t e h o u s e




                       2025                                                               32      FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 34 #####




                    daily life                            CONTINUED



                      If needed you are welcome to send a change of clothes (like underwear and socks, or extra
                      winter items) in a large ziplock bag labeled with your child’s name. We will have totes in
                      Fred the Shed to store this extra clothing. The outdoors is a great venue to satisfy many
                      needs for the child spanning f rom large and f ine motor skill development, sensory
                      fulf illment, vestibular stimulation, and self-awareness.

                         Learners are f ree to explore and create as they immerse themselves in the natural
                         elements of the outdoors. They may get dirty. The outdoors act as an additional
                         environment for learning, playing, and eating for the older studios.

                         In addition, we believe that children develop greater self awareness when they are able
                         to assess their own abilities and personal risk levels, as such, we will allow them to do
                         things like climb trees. Scrapes and bruises are a natural part of play; we try not to
                         make a big deal unless serious. Following that same logic you will not hear f rom us
                         about every scrape, bruise, or "boo-boo". If you have any concerns or your child has any
                         physical limitations it is your responsibility to have that conversation with your child,
                         and if needed inform us ahead of time so that we can do the best we can in supporting
                         that.

                         Outside time at VL is a tech f ree zone (phones, watches, laptops, tablets etc) so that
                         kids can be kids. If a child has a phone for emergency reasons, please let us know and if
                         they choose to use it against the contract they may loose outside time privileges.

                                         Outside Play Contract — Agreements & Accountability

                       Agreements: By joining Outside Play, learners agree to stay within boundaries, use
                      equipment respectfully, treat others with kindness, participate in conflict resolution when
                      asked, come when called by a parent or supervisor, ref rain f rom using tech, and remain
                      out of the studios except for bathroom visits.

                      When they break a contract agreement:
                        Strike 1: Reminder and quick reset.
                        Strike 2: Learner tells their parent the same day what happened and what they’ll do
                        differently.
                        Strike 3 (Reset & Re-evaluate): Learner is picked up at the conclusion of the work block
                        and does not stay for Extended Play for 4 days. During this time, they reflect, make a
                        plan, to show they are ready to come back in.
                        Automatic 3 Strikes: If someone intentionally leaves VL safety boundaries.

                                              Our aim is safety, ownership, and joyful play.




                       2025                                          33             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.






##### export 35 #####



                                                                                                                                                Share




                      daily life                                     CONTINUED


                       Why prioritize nature & play at all stages of development?
                                        Some profound studies and resources on the value of nature & play are:
                        Balanced and Barefoot by Angela Hanscom, Last Child in the Woods by Richard Louv & Dr Gordon Neufeld

                             “Play allows children opportunities to get creative, to practice regulating emotions, to enhance social
                                          development, and learn about themselves in the process” Angela Hanscom

                        “An environment-based education movement--at all levels of education--will help students realize that school
                              isn't supposed to be a polite form of incarceration, but a portal to the wider world.” Richard Louv

                         “Children literally thrive by challenging their bodies. When their bodies aren’t challenged, they fall behind in
                                                               their development.” Angela Hanscom

                        “Play is nature’s secret agent, clearly disguised, enabling the more visible characters in the story to fulfill their
                                                                   purpose.” Dr Gordon Neufeld

                             “The woods were my Ritalin. Nature calmed me, focused me, and yet excited my senses.” Richard Louv

                        “Children with health neurological systems naturally seek out the sensory input they need on their own. If they
                           are jumping off a rock over and over, it is because they are craving that sensory input.” Angela Hanscom

                        “Time in nature is not leisure time; it's an essential investment in our chidlren's health (and also, by the way, in
                                                                       our own).” Richard Louv

                        “We used to think that schools built brains. Now we know that it is play that builds the brains that school can
                                                                 then use.” Dr Gordon Neufeld

                       “It is important to realize that child need to challenge their bodies in various ways several hours a day, and to do
                                                          so with little adult direction.” Angela Hanscom




                        2025                                                      34              FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




                   37 / 64



