6/29/26, 5:53 AM                                                  Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life



                                                                                                                                  Share




                      daily life                                 CONTINUED




                       environment
                             We work hard to maintain an intentional, curated, and loving environment. We want the learners
                             to feel a sense of comfort, community, and joy. Our learners deserve a beautiful haven where the
                             environment calms nerves, stimulates minds, and inspires natural creativity.

                             We ask that all learners, refrain from bringing toys or books from home as much as possible
                             unless for show-and-tell (which the learners self-organize), or specifically stated by the guide.

                             Socks, Slippers, and Bare Feet: We invite all learners and staff to move around in their studios
                             with their shoes off. This creates a more honoring, and comfortable at home feeling. In many
                             cultures, people remove shoes before entering as a sign of cleanliness and respect for the space.
                             Anyone is welcome to leave slippers or socks in their cubby. Or if they want to keep their shoes
                             on- that’s ok too!

                             Outside we invite bare feet as often as the learner would like. We do suggest shoes on when
                             learners head into The Grove. Going bare foot outside has some obvious risk and also some very
                             positive health effects. Going barefoot strengthens the small muscles of the feet and ankles,
                             restoring natural arch support and healthy toe splay. The rich sensory feedback from skin to brain
                             sharpens balance, coordination, and posture, and can help support the nervous system. Learners
                             may choose what’s best for their bodies and the activity.




                       flow
                             At VL, we have many liberties. We allow young people to work at their own pace and drive
                             themselves. This freedom is defined as freedom to work ahead and to work towards independent
                             goals/passions during specified times — not freedom from working or freedom to do anything
                             they want, whenever they want. This implies that they are always working towards a larger goal
                             as part of their Hero’s Journey and that they honor the studio’s forward movement as well, which
                             is facilitated by the studio schedule.




                        2025                                                30             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




                   33 / 64

https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…     1/1
