 6/27/26, 7:40 PM

                            game setup                      Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




      STUDIO SYSTEMS & GETTING TO KNOW THE VOCABULARY




 tems are implemented based upon studio needs. Not all systems may be
 lace at all times and can change based on decisions made by the learner

  dio contracts
he Studio Contract is a list of promises that learners make to each other. Each learn
ill sign the contract and agree to hold each other accountable to the contrac
onoring the Studio Contract is something that is fundamental at VL. It’s the ma
overning document for the learners. It is up to the tribe to figure out a way to mainta
ccountability and associated privileges gained or lost in accordance to their stud
ontracts


ardrails
 is the guides responsibility to maintain the guardrails and keep a physically an
motionally safe environment.


 dio maintenance
 arners have the opportunity to help maintain their studio through daily Stud
aintenance. This encourages organization, cleaning habits, and a sense of ownersh
nd responsibility. Depending on how the learners decide to implement this syste
 ere may be differences within each studio on how this is run


 ucks                This won’t be introduced until the studio is ready for it and evolves each year

 rant Life Bucks (V-BUCKS) are the learner-directed accountability system used. A
mes v-bucks could be earned for taking on additional responsibilities, o
complishing badges or lost by breaking certain agreement outlined in the studio. Th
 ucks that can be used to purchase items in the v-bucks store.


dges
 adge is a mastery credential—clear evidence (publishable work) that a learner met
 ned standard. It’s not a prize. Types include Math, Language Arts, Character, Passio
  more. Each learner has an annual badge plan co-created with parents and guide
 ewed in Journey Meetings. Learners can work at their own pace on them. If follow
 https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
