                    keeping score
6/27/26, 7:42 PM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




don’t “keep score” in the same sense that other schools or sports games do. Your lea
 set goals and track progress as a tool to help them grow and improve their skills.
e Journey Tracker, exhibitions, badges and other ways to show growth, effort
omplishment. Side note: these badges will be used to create a transcript in the h
ool studio.


 rent involvement and goals
ents are encouraged to be involved in their child’s goal                                     Reflection Question: It is helpful to ask: Wh
  ng and follow through. We encourage parents to                                             you do differently? Do you feel that your
                                                                                             week was the best you can do? Where
 e their own goal setting process with their child as                                        feeling most challenged? What was your
 .                                                                                           achievement this week? What was your
                                                                                             failure? When did you have the most ener
                                                                                             When did you serve as a guide to someo
                                                                                             guided you? Everyone has an off-week
                                                                                             then, is there something you need a brea

urney tracker                                                                                get back to a strong start for next week?



  studio’s badge plan, work submitted, weekly tracking, SMART Goals (Specific, Measura
 inable, Relevant, Time-bound), and Adventure V-Buck details can all be viewed in Jou
 ker. While Journey Tracker is a powerful tool, it is only a small measure of the learning that y
d is experiencing at VL. This is our first year being able to use it more fully, and the Acton M
work has just made changes to it as well, so please be patient as we all will have the opportu
earn how to navigate it together this year.


                                                   SELF-PACED MASTERY

ners at VL work at their own pace toward academic badges, with the expectation that they are stead
aged. We recognize different speeds and watch for consistent, diligent progress—some learners fini
 iple grade-level badges in a year; others take longer. We invite parents to embrace this rhythm: the on
 parison is you—yesterday. Badges are earned for mastery and excellence, not task completion. Maste
  take more than an academic year, and that’s okay; it ensures learners aren’t pushed ahead befo
 dations are solid.


                                                     JOURNEY MEETINGS
ce a year families will be offered what we call a Journey Meeting to assess goals, make needed plans
 celebrate accomplishments. The meeting will take place with the Guide and always includes the
ner and ideally both parents.

oughout the year parents or learner may also request additional meetings, if necessary, to review
https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
