6/27/26, 7:50 PM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life

                                                  CONTINUED



havior expectations for adults
While on VL grounds or interacting with members of the Vibrant Life community, all adults
 xpected to abide by the following values: respect, non violent communication (no yelling
 ursing), compliance with the policies laid out in the Playbook, no harassment, and no alcoh
obacco or drug use. Please minimize distractions if the learners are in studios and allow th
 atural processes to take place.



 arterly surveys
 uarterly family surveys are done by the Acton Academy Main Network word wide to ensure t
we are keeping our standards high by delivering on our promises to you. VL views all t
eedback. Learners are also given an opportunity to submit feedback on these surveys. We va
 oth learner and parent feedback as our goal is to continue to learn and grow. We plan
 ontinually evolve as the years go on. At the conclusion of the year, VL will also give a m
horough feedback survey. We want to serve our families to the best of our abilities!


           survey FAQs
           1) Participating in the survey is not required but greatly appreciated!
           2) To remain affiliated with Acton Academy, we must have a 'quarterly survey' average of 8.5 or higher.
           3) We ask that you include your child in the survey process.
           4) Venting and overly critical comments or nonspecific reviews do not add value to the survey process.
           Giving specific ideas and suggestions on how to make VL better are greatly appreciated!




embership costs
We share next year’s membership costs around Winter Break. Plan for an approximately
 nnual increase from your current/base rate to keep VL sustainable amid inflation and operat
 osts (final rates confirmed in the pricing notice).

  utside Funding (optional): Any state or federally funded programs that families choose
 articipate in for additional funds are completely optional and are up to each family to do the
 ometimes they can be a great help! In general VL is extremely careful & cautious about a
 overnment program, added dollars can come with added requirements. Legislation around t
 hanges regularly, so programs are not not guaranteed for years to come. We have studied t
 istory of education in Idaho and know it took a great deal of sacrifice and effort from dedicat
 eroes to gain the freedom to educate outside of public schools. Observing the trends, it h
 een consistent-- allowing government into the private education world will have an exchange
 iving up freedoms at some point or another. Please choose what best serves your family, w
 yes open to potential trade-offs.

 dditional reading on this topic if interested: The Politics of Pie; A history of Ida
https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
