eep your head in the gam
6/27/26, 7:42 PM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




                                                            HEALING



eper into the nervous system stress response
 is your body’s alarm turning on—because of a cue like a sound, tone, look, memory, or even a thoug
rocessed as dangerous-- even if when we are actually physically safe majority of the time. The cue (t
 or) doesn’t create the issue; it touches an old pattern that was already there. We may feel anxio
 upset that someone/something did something to us... This bodily response is not a conscious acti
programed response to keep you safe unless you consciously choose to reprogram it.

happens in the body/brain?
e amygdala hits the alarm; stress chemistry increases.
e prefrontal cortex (thinking/choices) temporarily dims. Creative thinking is not available!
dies do what they’re designed to do: fight / flight / freeze / fawn.
 estion and healing (and other non urgent systems) pause because it’s more important for other tasks
 e place to keep you alive

ervous system response is fantastic to help us stay alive, the problem is that it is going off the major
 day for most of the modern world: If your child is late to school, if they fall, if they come home and a
helmed by something that happened during the day. Often the body reacts to these events as stresso
ad of simply as an event.

 our child is stressed, our body can mirror it—a stress echo—and we both ramp up, making problem
g hard.

ents we have the opportunity to be that steady place for when our child’s nervous system is in hi
When we remain centered our calm nervous system gives a signal to your child’s brain that they are sa
l, As a result, your child’s system can also regulate. Your system can help rewire their system! After y
each a point of regulation, then you can think clearly, and make a plan moving forward.

aining a chronic state in fight or flight or stress response leads to myriad of dis-eases in the body. A
ally just not fun. Life is meant to be joyful. Committing ourselves to stay calm in the body no matt
happens actually prepares us to clearly think through any problem that arises in the future and helps
 a joyful present as well.

fer a number of tools to help the nervous system regulate, you are welcome to utilize any of them
amily. See previous pages in the Playbook for a reference for those.

ating the nervous system must come first before clear reflection or planning can occur.

                                        Take away: Your calm is contagious.

maining calm you are literally giving their brain a safety signal, which creates a new neuropathway. Y
e showing their brain that conflict or stress is ok, and we are capable humans with the ability
 te through anything.


er: if this is not yet a strong place for your family you could read Waking the Tiger by Peter Levine or The Body Keeps
https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
