6/29/26, 5:36 AM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life



                                                                                                                            Share




                                            game setupGENERAL INFORMATION



                         Emergencies: For program-wide emergencies, communication will first be sent
                         via the BAND app, followed by personal phone calls if needed.

                         For individual emergencies, we will make every effort to contact the parent or
                         listed emergency contacts promptly.

                         If evacuation from our location is necessary, learners will be transported the
                         empty lot next to Faith Journey Church at:
                         23057 Old Hwy 30, Caldwell, ID 83607. It was an old baseball field, it's close to
                         the freeway.

                         Assume that our programs will continue during power outages and snowy
                         weather. Families are encouraged to use their own judgment about attendance
                         based on their comfort and safety.

                         We are on septic and personal well water. When power is out, we lose toilet
                         functions and running water. We have a camping toilet prepared. We also have
                         extra water stored on site.

                         Lost & Found: If there’s an item lost while in studio it’ll go in the studio lost &
                         found. If it’s lost outside it’ll go in a bin on the shelves near Discovery studio.
                         So there will be 2 potential places to look for items.

                         Fred the Shed is located on the west side of the main home. It is near the sport
                         court. Once inside, the right side is Jones family personal items. the left side is
                         VL items. There are abundance bins where you can donate your gently used
                         items and also shop for free! There are bins labeled for adult and children
                         clothing, and one household items bin. If you have a larger item you would love
                         to donate, share a picture on the “Resources” BAND thread and offer it to
                         families. There is also a bin for any donated toilet paper rolls, cool re-usable
                         craft items that your happy to donate or that our guides may request.

                         Late Drop off Box: if you need to get something to your learner after they are
                         in their studio work block, there is a labeled box in Fred that you can put the
                         item in, the learner can then retrieve it when it works for them. This minimizes
                         studio interruptions (:

                         Clothes for a rainy day bin: We do have a few winter items that we can offer to
                         learners if they are really cold during the winter, or something unexpected
                         happens to their clothing. No guarantee that it will fit perfectly or be the color
                         they desire (: but it’s an option if they are want it. We would appreciate any
                         donated winter clothes to add to this bin.

                         Yoga mats: if you are hanging out and would like to do some exercising
                         outside, feel free to grab a yoga mat from the labeled bin in Fred. Please return
                         it before 2pm. These are only for parents or for learners when they use them as
                         a tribe.




                        2025                                         25             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




                   28 / 64

https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
