6/27/26, 7:24 PM   y                                       Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




eded you are welcome to send a change of clothes (like underwear and socks, or ext
er items) in a large ziplock bag labeled with your child’s name. We will have totes in
 the Shed to store this extra clothing. The outdoors is a great venue to satisfy many
 s for the child spanning f rom large and f ine motor skill development, sensory
 ment, vestibular stimulation, and self-awareness.

 arners are f ree to explore and create as they immerse themselves in the natural
ements of the outdoors. They may get dirty. The outdoors act as an additional
nvironment for learning, playing, and eating for the older studios.

  addition, we believe that children develop greater self awareness when they are ab
  assess their own abilities and personal risk levels, as such, we will allow them to do
 ings like climb trees. Scrapes and bruises are a natural part of play; we try not to
 ake a big deal unless serious. Following that same logic you will not hear f rom us
bout every scrape, bruise, or "boo-boo". If you have any concerns or your child has an
hysical limitations it is your responsibility to have that conversation with your child,
  d if needed inform us ahead of time so that we can do the best we can in supportin
 at.

utside time at VL is a tech f ree zone (phones, watches, laptops, tablets etc) so that
ds can be kids. If a child has a phone for emergency reasons, please let us know and
ey choose to use it against the contract they may loose outside time privileges.

                       Outside Play Contract — Agreements & Accountability

eements: By joining Outside Play, learners agree to stay within boundaries, use
pment respectfully, treat others with kindness, participate in conflict resolution whe
d, come when called by a parent or supervisor, ref rain f rom using tech, and remain
 f the studios except for bathroom visits.

n they break a contract agreement:
 rike 1: Reminder and quick reset.
 rike 2: Learner tells their parent the same day what happened and what they’ll do
fferently.
 rike 3 (Reset & Re-evaluate): Learner is picked up at the conclusion of the work bloc
  d does not stay for Extended Play for 4 days. During this time, they reflect, make a
an, to show they are ready to come back in.
utomatic 3 Strikes: If someone intentionally leaves VL safety boundaries.

                              Our aim is safety, ownership, and joyful play.


https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
