6/29/26, 5:53 AM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




                    daily life                            CONTINUED



                      If needed you are welcome to send a change of clothes (like underwear and socks, or extra
                      winter items) in a large ziplock bag labeled with your child’s name. We will have totes in
                      Fred the Shed to store this extra clothing. The outdoors is a great venue to satisfy many
                      needs for the child spanning f rom large and f ine motor skill development, sensory
                      fulf illment, vestibular stimulation, and self-awareness.

                         Learners are f ree to explore and create as they immerse themselves in the natural
                         elements of the outdoors. They may get dirty. The outdoors act as an additional
                         environment for learning, playing, and eating for the older studios.

                         In addition, we believe that children develop greater self awareness when they are able
                         to assess their own abilities and personal risk levels, as such, we will allow them to do
                         things like climb trees. Scrapes and bruises are a natural part of play; we try not to
                         make a big deal unless serious. Following that same logic you will not hear f rom us
                         about every scrape, bruise, or "boo-boo". If you have any concerns or your child has any
                         physical limitations it is your responsibility to have that conversation with your child,
                         and if needed inform us ahead of time so that we can do the best we can in supporting
                         that.

                         Outside time at VL is a tech f ree zone (phones, watches, laptops, tablets etc) so that
                         kids can be kids. If a child has a phone for emergency reasons, please let us know and if
                         they choose to use it against the contract they may loose outside time privileges.

                                         Outside Play Contract — Agreements & Accountability

                       Agreements: By joining Outside Play, learners agree to stay within boundaries, use
                      equipment respectfully, treat others with kindness, participate in conflict resolution when
                      asked, come when called by a parent or supervisor, ref rain f rom using tech, and remain
                      out of the studios except for bathroom visits.

                      When they break a contract agreement:
                        Strike 1: Reminder and quick reset.
                        Strike 2: Learner tells their parent the same day what happened and what they’ll do
                        differently.
                        Strike 3 (Reset & Re-evaluate): Learner is picked up at the conclusion of the work block
                        and does not stay for Extended Play for 4 days. During this time, they reflect, make a
                        plan, to show they are ready to come back in.
                        Automatic 3 Strikes: If someone intentionally leaves VL safety boundaries.

                                              Our aim is safety, ownership, and joyful play.




                       2025                                          33             FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
