6/28/26, 8:55 PM                                               Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




                           parent agreement of participation
                       To support your learner’s Hero’s Journey, we ask families to uphold the commitments below—
                        reviewed in interviews and in the enrollment agreement. If these are consistently unmet, VL
                                                    may not be the right fit at this time.

                         Unfamiliar with a term? See Common Launch Topics. Please review and discuss them at
                        home; these shared ideas guide our studio culture and often strengthen family culture, too.



                       As parents at Vibrant Life, we promise to:

                         Be on a Hero’s Journey ourselves, embrace challenges, be lifelong learners, walk in a Growth
                         Mindset, seek answers to our questions, find our own solutions, and actively pursue a life of
                         meaning and contribution.
                         Accept Vibrant Life as a self-paced environment where learners run the studios (responsibility
                         given over time as they are ready), and the aim is to minimize the influence of the guide over
                         time.
                         Help my learner create their goals at the beginning of the year and then assess as needed
                         throughout the year. Specifically, meeting with my learner and their guide during Journey
                         Meetings (2x yr) to evaluate those goals together. I understand that these are their goals, not
                         mine. I will let them lead this meeting while helping to guide them by asking challenging
                         questions.
                         Allow my learner to fail early, cheaply, and as often as necessary. Supporting alongside them
                         during these times. If additional guidance is needed, I can refer to this Playbook or parent
                         meetings, or a meeting with Jenna as a tool. We will embrace the messiness of experiential
                         learning. We will regularly reflect on difficult experiences as opportunities for growth.
                         Attend the majority, if not all, learner-led Exhibitions, and quarterly Parent Meetings, ideally with
                         both parents. Parent Meetings focus on support for us as individuals, as parents, and as families. I
                         agree to attend my child’s Journey Meetings, which are learner led parent-guide conferences that
                         happen 2x yr.
                         Extend grace to those in the VL community- owners, staff, other parents and learners when we act
                         in our own human-ness and make mistakes, or unintentionally hurt. Assume the best of others.
                         Use open forums and non violent communication when conflict arises. See Marshal Rosenburg
                         Non Violent Communication book.
                         Empower my Hero to learn the skills to solve their own problems by not engaging in the Drama
                         Triangle (victim, persecutor, rescuer) but instead seek to operate in the Empowerment Triangle
                         (creator, challenger, coach). See The Power of TED by David Emerald.
                         I commit to having conversations/meetings with my child present (if appropriate), to include
                         them in the process of solving their own problems.
                         Do all in my power to have my learner to VL consistently on time for morning exercises and to
                         allow them to be consistently present for their meaningful work block.
                         Accept the fact that building a self-governed, self-directed learner is a multi-year process that
                         includes failures and setbacks, therefore. Cultivating deep character and new traits will take time!
                         It’s not meant to be a quick easy process. I commit not to go into “rescue” or “persecutor mode”
                         when discomfort arises
                         Commit to staying up on BAND weekly announcements and use BAND for the communication
                         tool for our community.




                       2025                                               14            FIND A CALLING, CHANGE THE WORLD.




https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
