 6/27/26, 7:30 PM

                            game setup                      Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life




                                  ATTENDANCE POLICY & ILLNESS




endance policy
h VL being part-time we really power pack the time when we are in studio. Please try to
 ily trips on long weekends or break weeks. If you miss days, it’s life—we get it. We don’t k
 ndance. When a learner is out it’s their responsibility to check in with their studio and ma
  , especially for any Quest roles that depend on them. Core is flexible and can often be don
me. As Journey Tracker rolls out, more work will be accessible there.

 ences (Expected and Unexpected):
 d a BAND message to your guide to let them know. Feel free to CC Jenna.

e arrival:
 need to message, just come when you can.
Younger learners: please park in rocks or dirt lot and walk them to the studio door.
Older learners: you may drop off at the roundabout; wait to visually confirm they’ve entered t
 tudio (their tribe may be outside or with another studio).

 y pick up:
 t practice: tell your learner in advance so they know to be ready. Messaging the guide is optio
mately the learner is responsible to be prepared.
 or younger learners, you can pop into the studio to let them know it’s time.
Please park on the side rocks or in the dirt lot (not the roundabout).
Each studio has its own check-out system; ask your learner to confirm they completed it be
eaving.

 wy weather: Assume we are in session. A BAND message will be sent out by 7:30 am if there
 closures. Our basic philosophy is, we will be in session, and it’s up to each family to decide w
y will do. Since weather can vary widely based on area, we feel you are the best judge of safet
r family. This allows for each family's comfort level, and even car performance, to factor into t
 vidual decisions. Often we have combined play time during snowy days- it’s a blast.




 https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
