6/27/26, 7:40 PM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life

                                                  CONTINUED                                      3. Appreciate the feedback.
                                                                                                 4. Later, determine if you will Ac
                                                                                                    Disregard each piece of feedb
0 feedback
t the end of each session, learners will participate in live 360 reviews. Learners a
sked to give and receive 4A feedback (see above) to/from their fellow studio-mat
hey are asked to provide both warm-and cool feedback in order to help their fello
avelers improve and grow. The reviews measure leadership, work ethic, methodolo
ontribution to the studio. and kindness among other things.

                                                          Reflection Question: How do you feel about receiving feedback? H
                                                          do you ask for it? How can you implement the seeking and rec
                                                          feedback into your life and home as a powerful tool for growth?


wn hall meetings
own hall meetings are offered weekly as-needed and are typically learner-led. Learne
an propose new rules for the studio contract (within the guardrails) or bring
oncerns and potential solutions. These meetings are an important part of our cultu
or the young people to know they can be the catalyst for change, learn to wo
ogether, and govern themselves. Learners are expected to uphold decisions made ev
   they are unable to participate. It is a learner’s responsibility to know what w
 iscussed if they are out (notes will be posted in Adventure/Discovery studios).


nches/socratic discussions
 very morning the studios begin with a Socratic launch to inspire, equip, or connect t
 ibe. This is a fantastic time to practice how to think, not what to think. To also practi
aking a stand, respectfully disagreeing and seeing a different perspective. The nature
  Socratic launch is that there is no real right or wrong answer., It is meant to stretch
n different and needed ways.


edom levels
he VL environment encourages learners to experience real life learning. In real life if w
re responsible we may get more privileges. The opposite is true as well, if we do
ollow through on what we said we would, we may not get added privileges. When
earner exhibits measured responsibility, they can earn additional freedoms a
 rivileges. Each studio’s system may look different from one another and serve differe
 urposes.


el: morning exercise leader
 ny Adventure/Discovery/Spark learner who is interested can practice and get check
https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
