6/27/26, 7:41 PM                                           Published Family Playbook 2025-2026 - Vibrant Life

                                                  CONTINUED
                                                                                                                            Share
 ns, books, buddies, guide
nt Life is a learner-led environment. This is one of the unique aspects of an Acton Academ
ng to the 3 B’s before G principle as often as possible, turns out young people who have hig
fficacy (belief in one’s self), and are highly capable humans in the world. This practice remind
oung people to first assess what tools are available to them before asking an outside sourc
  it’s about taking a pause and being intentional with our actions.




                                                   Brains: First exhaust your own knowledge by thoroug
                                                   defining the problem and attempting to solve it on your ow

                                                   Books: What resources do you have available to you that m
        BBB-G is                                   give you clues or ideas? Learners are encouraged to use
                                                   studio resources like books, approved online resources,

       defined as:                                 collaborate with a community expert.

                                                   Buddy: Who is someone that may have expertise in the a
                                                   you are struggling in? This is not a time to simply get t
                                                   answer from another person but to jointly work
                                                   understand how to solve the problem for yourself.




 if a hero has diligently used all three of these options and is still struggling with a concep
sk a Guide, not for the answer, but for assistance to find the answer, which will be given thro
 of leading questions and demonstrations to help guide the learner towards the solution. Th
  studio is to have the needed information present for the learners to access. If it is not, th
tic opportunity for the learners to problem solve with the guide what added tools/resource
eded in a particular studio or situation.

 ndational principle within the Acton learning model is to provide opportunitie
ers to learn to collaboratively solve hard problems. Perseverance and creativity are deve
gh this process. Which is life changing. Encourage your learner to take ownership if they are
d question and/or challenge and point them in the direction of problem solving and persevera




                   50 / 64

https://www.canva.com/design/DAGxtO3ENn8/ARG0LkRaA5bcX6_TTsK9nA/view?utm_content=DAGxtO3ENn8&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=lin…   1/1
